License notices
===============

The full ARKref distribution is GPL'd.

Our original code in ARKref is licensed under the MIT license.

However, the full system heavily relies on components that are distributed
under stricter licenses -- in particular, the GPL, and the Alias-i license
that forces the overall distribution to be freely licensed -- so if you use
ARKref as-is, with those components included, you have to use the stricter
licenses.

In particular, we believe this means the full system cannot be included in
commercial software. It should only be used for research.

For ARKref without the components:

(C) Copyright 2009-2010, Brendan O'Connor and Michael Heilman

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.


--------------

Various included components:

=========================================================
Stanford Parser, NER, and Tregex are under the GPLv2.
http://nlp.stanford.edu/software/lex-parser.shtml
http://nlp.stanford.edu/software/CRF-NER.shtml
http://nlp.stanford.edu/software/tregex.shtml

=========================================================
LingPipe is under the Alias-i Royalty Free License, Version 1.
(Please note LingPipe is used in a fairly limited manner.)
http://alias-i.com/lingpipe/licenses/lingpipe-license-1.txt

=========================================================
Apache Commons (langauge) is under the Apache license version 2.0:
http://commons.apache.org/license.html

=========================================================
arkref.ext.fig.basic is adapted from Percy Liang's Unsupervised NLP Modeling
Toolkit (and used in an extremely limited manner), which is MIT-licensed:

(C) Copyright 2009, Percy Liang

http://www.cs.berkeley.edu/~pliang

Permission is granted for anyone to copy, use, or modify these programs and
accompanying documents for purposes of research or education, provided this
copyright notice is retained, and note is made of any changes that have been
made.

These programs and documents are distributed without any warranty, express or
implied.  As the programs were written for research purposes only, they have
not been tested to the degree that would be advisable in any important
application.  All use of these programs is entirely at the user's own risk.

=========================================================
